[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Hello.
I'm Reece Jones.
And welcome to this sleep
talk-down and lucid dream
incubation video.
Today, I'll be guiding you
through the process of relaxing
your mind, preparing
yourself for sleep,
and then, once your mind
space has been softened,
sowing the seeds for a lucid
dream later on in the night.
In this particular video, the
dream theme will be liminality.
Please note you're
free to fall asleep
at any part of this video.
So when you begin to feel
tired, don't hesitate
to follow that feeling.
If that happens during the
sleep talk-down, that's fine.
If it doesn't happen until
the lucid dream incubation,
that's also fine.
First and foremost,
prioritize falling to sleep.
Do not wait for my
permission to do so.
Follow my words until you begin
to feel drowsy, at which point,
allow yourself to let go
and gently drift away.
And so to begin, please
lay down on your bed
and get into a position that
you feel comfortable with--
on your belly, on your
side, or on your back.
Whatever position you feel most
comfortable in, adopt it now.
And then make any
final adjustments
you need in order to
feel fully settled.
If you haven't already, you
should now close your eyes
and take a deep
breath in and out.
And settle into this
moment here on the bed.
Whatever your day
has been like, you're
now free to drop any
mental attachment to it.
The day is over, and
it's time to relax.
So allow yourself
to do exactly that
by focusing on this current
experience here on the bed,
listening to my voice.
To help hone your
focus further, you
should now settle your attention
on the breath, wherever
that stands out to
you most noticeably--
either in the rising and
falling of your chest
or in the air coming in
and out of your nose.
Fully dedicate yourself
to following the breath,
soaking in all of the fine
details, observing them keenly,
covering the entire
breath with your focus,
relaxed but attentive.
And as you breathe,
try to cultivate
that feeling of fascination
you once felt as a child.
As an adult, you're so
accustomed to the sensation
of breathing that,
in a sense, it's
become unimpressive to you.
But through your
focus and attention,
you can rekindle that feeling
of interest and intrigue.
So try to do that now.
Feel into the sense
of being alive.
Feel into the wonderful
sensation that is breathing.
Just let the breath come
and go as it pleases.
Don't try to force it
or direct it in any way.
If it's shallow, that's fine.
If it's deep, that's also fine.
Don't grade the
quality of your breath.
Merely observe it.
And as you observe it,
feel gratitude for it.
Recognize that you are
alive and breathing.
To help you stay
focused, you might
want to start softly counting
along with each breath.
So for example, on the next
breath in, think, "one."
On the next breath
out, think, "one."
And then on the next
breath in, think, "two."
On the next breath out,
think, "two," and so on.
If that doesn't
work for you, you
could use the mental note
of "in" and "out" instead.
Either way, do this
with a soft definition.
Let the labeling
of the breath help
you stay focused, but don't do
it with some intense pressure.
Remember, the arising
of the thought
itself is not
necessarily what we're
looking to get rid of here.
We're merely trying to
let go of the attachment
to it, to let go of the
entanglement and distraction
that thoughts often bring.
So when a thought
arises, that's fine.
Don't fight it.
Just notice the arising
and notice the falling away
and carry on with
following the breath.
And as my voice punctuates
the silence once more,
use it as a chance to
check in with yourself.
Are you still following
along with the breath?
Or have you become
entrenched in thought?
If so, use this opportunity to
once again observe the thought
itself.
Drop your identification to it.
Let it fall away
in its own time.
And then turn your attention
back to the breath.
And now as you become more
and more relaxed, more
and more settled into
the present moment,
start paying attention
to your visual field.
Just because your
eyes are closed,
it doesn't mean that your
visual field is gone.
It is, in fact, still there.
What you'll see will depend
on you as an individual
and where you're at
in your sleep cycle.
But invariably,
something will be
there, either darkness
or a color tone
or perhaps even some hypnagogia.
Whatever you may
see, observe it now
and lean further into
the feeling of relaxation
as you do.
You are now in a supremely
relaxed state, either sleeping
or on the edge of sleeping.
And so we're ready
to begin sowing
the seeds for lucid dreams
later on in the night.
By following along with my words
and visualizing them as you go,
you'll prime yourself to draw
upon these very same images
during REM.
There's no need to
follow along precisely.
Just continue relaxing and
allow my words to wash over you.
Whatever images come, come.
And even if you're
now asleep, know
that your subconscious will soak
these words in and store them
for later.
So let's begin.
You find yourself in a place
between realms, not quite
dreaming yet, not quite awake.
You've entered this place
with your lucidity intact,
your consciousness unbroken.
You understand who you
are and where you are
and what has just occurred.
This is a limbo state,
a liminal place,
a void of souls, not
one thing nor another.
And it's vast.
This is the waiting area
between dreams, you realize.
And with this realization,
you begin to lucidly explore.
This place is strange to you.
On one level, it feels like
somewhere you've never been
before, alien and unrelatable.
But on another level, you
sense a certain familiarity.
Everywhere you look is black
and shiny and metallic,
and your reflection
in these surfaces
warps as you gaze at it.
All around you is
uniform, one and the same,
an otherworldly sheen
both above and below.
It vaguely reminds
you of a mirror maze
from Earth, formless
and sprawling.
And still, you're lucid,
stopping from time to time
to check in with yourself.
I'm in the place
between dreams, you
think, kneeling down to
rub the metallic floor
and ground yourself.
I'm waiting for a
new scene to form.
And so you get up and
continue to explore the void,
knowing and expecting a
fully fleshed-out scene
to emerge shortly.
It always does.
It never stays
this way for long.
You know that if you can
just maintain your lucidity
for another minute
or two, something
will appear, a
character or an object,
something other than the
sprawling black metallic mass.
And as time ticks
on, your expectations
are eventually proven correct.
Off in the distance, you
see what you can only
describe as a portal of
sorts, a dream portal perhaps,
shimmering in the same way as
the void that surrounds it.
And so you head forward,
knowing that just beyond it
lies the next chapter
in tonight's saga.
At first, you walk
at a casual pace.
But then you fly,
kicking off the ground
and propelling yourself
forward with great force.
The feeling is exhilarating.
And now, landing
by the portal, you
can see the object
in its full splendor,
glorious and majestic.
It beckons you forth to observe
it more closely, to feel it,
to soak it in.
It's made of wonderfully
reflective gray stone,
and there are huge steps
leading up to the gate itself.
And so you walk them,
paying attention
to the sensation of the stone
beneath your feet as you do.
And upon reaching
the top, you take
in the resplendence of the
huge triangle gateway, framed
by a spiral stone arch with a
cloudy interdimensional haze
behind it.
Your breath is taken away as
you watch the mist pulsate
and spiral.
Beyond this lies
a new realm, you
think, a fully fleshed-out
dream, proper, just waiting.
And with this knowing
comes a deep desire
to step through the portal.
But before doing so,
you turn back around
and soak in the imagery
of the void one last time.
You now step through
the portal, taking
a deep breath in as you do.
The sensation is
reminiscent of stepping
through a cool waterfall,
tingly and wet.
And without a fuss, just
like that, you find yourself
in a new scene, fully fledged
and fully formed, lucidity
still intact.
I'm dreaming, you
remind yourself again
before heading off to
explore this new area.
You're intrigued and excited
to see what it has to offer.
All the while, you remain
calm, reminding yourself not
to let your emotions
get the better of you.
And so a new adventure begins.
You have now successfully
planted the seeds
for a lucid dream
later on in the night
and have primed
yourself to recognize
it as such when it occurs.
You're now also in a state
of supreme relaxation,
fully at ease and ready to begin
the first phase of sleeping.
And so if you
haven't already, you
may now let go and drift away.
It's time for sleep.